So now that we've built our application we need to host the life we want to put it up on some EU URL
that people are able to access so that when they go to our you URL they get our project and then they
can play around with it right now.
We've only ever accessed our web application through local host three thousand.
But what we're going to use is a service called Heroku and what Heroku is is it's a platform as a service
that allows us to host our web application on a you are all that they provide for us for free.
Now of course if you had more requirements and you needed more bandwidth for example because your web
getting a lot of traffic you can upgrade the plan that you get by default with Heroku the free plan
is pretty good for us because honestly for a portfolio project I do not expect that we would get that
much traffic that it breaks the amount of bandwidth that Heroku gives us for the free plan but in order
for us to explore what Heroku does.
We just have to understand the basics of web hosting.
So right now we have all of our real code written right.
And we know that from our initial lesson I create racked up create racked up has all these scripts and
configurations that help convert our ReACT code over to the basic javascript HDMI out and see us as
code that browsers need but in order for the browsers to actually get our Web site they need to get
it from a server of some kind just like how when we go to local host three thousand we get the javascript
SS and HDMI all files that build our Web site from our local server that we're running and it's communicating
support three thousand.
Now this server is local and we can only we can access local host three thousand.
But this is pretty much the same idea except when it comes to Web hosting this server needs to be on
24 hours.
Right.
And Heroku is going to be the service that actually hosts the server that serves up are HDMI all javascript
and CSX files.
Whenever somebody accesses the you are out that they give us as well now in order to use Heroku you
have to sign up for Heroku and it's a very easy setup process.
There's nothing complicated about it and you can pretty much just go to the Heroku Web site and just
sign up by going into this right button and then clicking the sign up.
Now you can pause here and finish that sign up before we continue.
But I already have a Heroku account so I'm just gonna log in to mine.
And after you've signed up we'll both end up on the dashboard and on this dashboard is where we can
see what projects we have currently hosted through Heroku so Heroku provides not only this dashboard
but also a command line interface that allows us to access our Heroku account through our command line
so that we can actually push our projects up onto the Heroku platform.
Now there's a couple ways to download the Heroku CLIA which is the command line interface and you can
get that through this link.
I'm gonna provide you
now on this Web site that I'm gonna give you.
Down in the download and install just installed the specific one for your platform.
Right.
If you're using Windows or if using a bunch to just use that one for using Mac download the installer
and then run it and after that.
Make sure you follow the installation instructions that are underneath.
And in order for you to verify that you've got Heroku installed you are just going to run Heroku dash
dash version in your command line.
So I'm gonna do that right now from this point forward.
I'm assuming that you have your Heroku CLIA installed so from our terminal everyone Heroku version you
should see some version of Heroku pop up now once you have Heroku you have to do Heroku log in so for
me I'm just going to log out of mine first to demonstrate for you how Heroku log in works.
So once we have Heroku we're gonna say Heroku log in and we just hit any button and it will ask us to
log in with Heroku.
If you're already logged in you pretty much simply click log in.
It will tell you that you have now logged into your slot.
So if we close this page and we go back we'll see that we're logged into our Heroku account and now
we're able to access a plethora of Heroku related functionality through the CLIA now in order for us
to get our application up onto Heroku.
We have to use some of the commands from our hero who still like now hero whose projects are kind of
like get hub repositories.
You pretty much push commits up onto Heroku using get commands but they're Heroku specific it commands
and then Heroku will naturally build it depending on what script we tell it to run and it will serve
it from a Heroku Web site which we will get now how we're going to do that is we're going to first create
a Heroku project which we can do from ah see a lot.
So what we'll say is Heroku create and then the name of the project which you want and usually what
it will do is it will use the name that you've given it except it will put Heroku in front of it.
So let's say our Web site is Crown live then it will use it will pretty much be Heroku dot Crown live
dot com.
After this we're going to say dash dash build pack.
And what a build pack is is it's essentially a specific configuration for the build that we want so
that it deploys are react as a static web site and we want this because it's the best and most efficient
way for us to host R react project created with create react out because this build pack is going to
be a create react app build pack and we'll get it from this link.
So what you're going to type in after you've typed in dash dash build pack is H T T P S slash slash
get hub dot com slash Mars slash create react app slash build pack dot get and this bill pack is also
great because it will also use the production build of our ReACT app for the deployment and you'll see
this when we actually run are Heroku project so after we've done this we want to push our changes up
to this project.
So what we'll say is we'll say get push Heroku master now Heroku is the repository that are current
Heroku project that we just credit is connected to in terms of our own project.
So our project is pointing to this new Heroku project when we type get push Heroku and what we want
we say Master we just want to push our master branch.
So now when we do that we'll see that it will start building the source on to our Heroku project.
So because of this build pack that we've set up it's going to optimize the build for Heroku to deploy
our create react at Project and you'll see this log which is a live log of Heroku spinning up our project
on its server that we've just created when we wrote Heroku create it's going to get all the packages
related to our projects so all of the node modules right.
It'll set up all the dependencies you know optimize the build using the create react app configurations
for battle and web pack and then after some of these it will say optimizing build right there.
So it'll say running built.
Right.
So it's running our yarn build script and it's now creating this optimized production build based off
of the Create react app configuration and once it's done building it will host our Web site and serve
it with this new hero who you are all that it will provide.
So let's just wait for our bills to finish
and then near the end here you'll see that it's successfully deployed to this Heroku link.
So now if you copy this link and paste it into your browser you'll be able to access this project and
now we'll see that our project is fully loaded.
Now what we want to do is check the functionality and we'll actually see that everything is working
as we wrote it if we go to our checkout We'll see that we're actually still able to go through our full
checkout flow except because now our site is hosted over HDTV s Chrome.
If you're using Chrome will allow any of the previously stored credit cards that you might have put
in to display.
So it offers that autocomplete feature using the stripe checkout now which we didn't have access to
before because we were not hosting our application over HDTV s so I'm just gonna use the fake credit
card that we have here
and we'll see that our application is working as it was before.
The only thing that might not work is actually our signing because if we try and sign in we'll get this
message actually in our consoles that says that we are not authenticated right unauthorized domain.
So this is because firebase wants to know which applications are allowed to access our authentication
service.
So what we can do is we can just copy.
Are you all right.
So before the signing you want to copy this you are.
We're gonna go to our Firebase and go into our project and then inside of authentication we're gonna
go to the sign and method tab and down in the authorized domain section.
We're gonna click ad domain and paste our link and then click add and now we have to refresh our application
and now if we click sign up with Google we'll see that it works
just like it did before now.
The only thing is that maybe we don't want to display all of these log messages of our actions right.
We don't want to log anything.
Once we're in production and I'll show you how we can remove this from only production in the next lesson.